Improvements to the network topologies doc (#8298)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/index.md

Istio ingress gateway to the Internet). As such, these topologies require different ingress gateway configurations for
transporting correct client attributes like IP addresses and certificates to the workloads running in the cluster.

> Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be set globally for all gateway workloads via `MeshConfig` or per gateway using a pod annotation. For example, to configure globally during install when using an `IstioOpeartor` CR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be set globally for all gateway workloads via `MeshConfig` or per gateway using a pod annotation. For example, to configure globally during install or upgrade when using an `IstioOpeartor` CR:
```

> Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be set globally for all gateway workloads via `MeshConfig` or per gateway using a pod annotation. For example, to configure globally during install or upgrade when using an `IstioOpeartor` CR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be set globally for all gateway workloads via `MeshConfig` or per gateway using a pod annotation. For example, to configure globally during install or upgrade when using an `IstioOperator` custom resource:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
        forwardClientCertDetails: <ENUM_VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

You can also configure both of these settings by adding the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec
of your Istio ingress gateway.

{{< text yaml >}}
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      "proxy.istio.io/config": '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": <VALUE>, "forwardClientCertDetails": <ENUM_VALUE> } }'
{{< /text >}}

### Configuring X-Forwarded-For Headers

Applications rely on reverse proxies to forward client attributes in a request, such as `X-Forward-For` header. However, due to the variety of network
topologies that Istio can be deployed in, you must set the `numTrustedProxies` to the number of trusted proxies deployed in front

> of the Istio gateway proxy, so that the client address can be extracted correctly. This helps the Istio Gateway set the correct value for the `X-Envoy-External-Address` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the Istio gateway proxy, so that the client address can be extracted correctly.
This controls the value populated by the ingress gateway in the `X-Envoy-External-Address` header
which can be reliably used by the upstream services to access client's original IP address.
```
```suggestion
of the Istio gateway proxy, so that the client address can be extracted correctly. This helps the Istio Gateway set the correct value for the `X-Envoy-External-Address` header.
```

    $ istioctl install -f topology.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

>     {{< idea >}}

Reviewer: Restarting proxies is still needed IIRC. Are you seeing that the Operator does a rolling upgrade for gateways?

Reviewer 2: Yes i had to restart pod afterwards also

Author: Added it back in the example task section

    }
    {{< /text >}}

> The above output shows the headers that the httpbin workload received. When the Istio gateway received this request, it set the `X-Envoy-External-Address` header to the second to last (`numTrustedProxies: 2`) address in the `X-Forwarded-For` header from your curl command. Additionally, the gateway appends its own IP to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above output shows the request headers that the `httpbin` workload received. When the Istio gateway received this request, it set the `X-Envoy-External-Address` header to the second to last (`numTrustedProxies: 2`) address in the `X-Forwarded-For` header from your curl command. Additionally, the gateway appends its own IP to the
```

See the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
for examples of using this capability.

## PROXY Protocol

> The [PROXY protocol](https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) allows for exchanging and preservation of client attributes across multiple proxies. Enabling this requires adding [Envoy Proxy Protocol filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/listeners/listener_filters/proxy_protocol), using an `EnvoyFilter` applied on the gateway workload. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [PROXY protocol](https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) allows for exchanging and preservation of client attributes across multiple proxies without relying on Layer 7 protocols.
Enabling this requires adding [Envoy Proxy Protocol filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/listeners/listener_filters/proxy_protocol), using an `EnvoyFilter` applied on the gateway workload. For example:
```
```suggestion
The [PROXY protocol](https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) allows for exchanging and preservation of client attributes across multiple proxies. Enabling this requires adding [Envoy Proxy Protocol filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/listeners/listener_filters/proxy_protocol), using an `EnvoyFilter` applied on the gateway workload. For example:
```

See the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
for examples of using this capability.

## PROXY Protocol

The [PROXY protocol](https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) allows for exchanging and preservation of client attributes across multiple proxies without relying on Layer 7 protocols.

Enabling this requires adding [Envoy Proxy Protocol filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/listeners/listener_filters/proxy_protocol), using an `EnvoyFilter` applied on the gateway workload. For example:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: EnvoyFilter
metadata:
  name: proxy-protocol
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  configPatches:
  - applyTo: LISTENER
    patch:
      operation: MERGE
      value:
        listener_filters:
        - name: envoy.listener.proxy_protocol
        - name: envoy.listener.tls_inspector
  workloadSelector:
    labels:
      istio: ingressgateway
{{< /text >}}

{{< idea >}}

> Note that the PROXY protocol can be used in conjunction with the `gatewayTopology` configuration, and the `numTrustedProxies` will be used to determine the address for the `X-Envoy-External-Address` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the PROXY protocol can be used in conjunction with the `gatewayTopology` configuration, and the `numTrustedProxies` will be used to determine the address for the `X-Forwarded-For` header.
```

Author: My take away from Lin's tests:

When proxy protocol with gateway listener filter is set and
1. no XFF headers sent, no gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address not set, XFF set to client IP
2. with XFF headers, no gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address set, XFF set to client IP
3. with XFF headers, with gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address set to configured hops, XFF has client IP appended

Without proxy protocol, 
4. no XFF headers sent, no gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address not set, XFF set to gw IP
5. with XFF headers sent, no gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address not set, XFF has gw IP appended
6.  no XFF headers, with gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address not set, XFF set to gw IP
7. with XFF headers, with gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address set to configured hops, gw IP appended

(...a table might have been a better choice)

This Note was meant to talk about 3.... XFF has client IP appended, but XEEA is set based on numTrustedProxies. 

Agree? We can add another sentence in the description of Proxy Protocol that the XFF value will be set to the client address (or appended).

Reviewer: Mostly. Minor tweaks:

When proxy protocol with gateway listener filter is set and

2. with XFF headers, no gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address set, XFF set to client IP -> with XFF headers, no gatewayTopology = X-Envoy-External-Address set, XFF has client IP appended
